# white-wine-ML
This repository contains the content of the research project submitted as part of the ECE8603 - Machine Learning course requirements at Toronto Metropolitan (formerly Ryerson) University.
# Abstract
Machine learning models are taking over many tasks in various industries. One industry that could benefit from these models is the wine industry. Several physicochemical and sensory tests are performed on the wine samples to ensure the quality of the wines being produced. This project trains many machine learning models in a combination of different preprocessing techniques on the Vinho Verde white wine dataset, the product of the Mihno region in Portugal, to predict the quality of wine samples based on their physicochemical properties. Among many models trained on the white wine dataset, the Extra Trees Classifier was found to outperform other models in various test settings. Ultimately, a stacked model with an automatic feature selection comprising the Extra Trees Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, Extreme Gradient Boosting, Light Gradient Boosting Machine, and Decision Tree Classifier was found to be the best model after performing several optimization techniques. With the promising performance metrics achieved in this project, the subjective quality rating of wine samples by traditional reviewers can be replaced by machine learning models in the hope of a more rigorous wine quality rating in the near future.
# Video Presentation
URL: https://www.loom.com/share/a9b35b78eee54c04a327fc442680d768?sid=883ed1fa-9546-4c02-a2b8-298d94606d8a
